Next: touch invocation, Previous: chgrp invocation, Up: Changing file
attributes   [Contents][Index]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

13.3 chmod: Change access permissions

chmod changes the access permissions of the named files. Synopsis:

chmod [option]… {mode | --reference=ref_file} file…

chmod never changes the permissions of symbolic links, since the chmod system
call cannot change their permissions. This is not a problem since the
permissions of symbolic links are never used. However, for each symbolic link
listed on the command line, chmod changes the permissions of the pointed-to
file. In contrast, chmod ignores symbolic links encountered during recursive
directory traversals.

Only a process whose effective user ID matches the user ID of the file, or a
process with appropriate privileges, is permitted to change the file mode bits
of a file.

A successful use of chmod clears the set-group-ID bit of a regular file if the
file’s group ID does not match the user’s effective group ID or one of the
user’s supplementary group IDs, unless the user has appropriate privileges.
Additional restrictions may cause the set-user-ID and set-group-ID bits of mode
or ref_file to be ignored. This behavior depends on the policy and
functionality of the underlying chmod system call. When in doubt, check the
underlying system behavior.

If used, mode specifies the new file mode bits. For details, see the section on
File permissions. If you really want mode to have a leading ‘-’, you should use
-- first, e.g., ‘chmod -- -w file’. Typically, though, ‘chmod a-w file’ is
preferable, and chmod -w file (without the --) complains if it behaves
differently from what ‘chmod a-w file’ would do.

The program accepts the following options. Also see Common options.

‘-c’
‘--changes’
   
    Verbosely describe the action for each file whose permissions actually
    changes.

‘-f’
‘--silent’
‘--quiet’
   
    Do not print error messages about files whose permissions cannot be
    changed.

‘--preserve-root’
   
    Fail upon any attempt to recursively change the root directory, /. Without
    --recursive, this option has no effect. See Treating / specially.

‘--no-preserve-root’
   
    Cancel the effect of any preceding --preserve-root option. See Treating /
    specially.

‘-v’
‘--verbose’
   
    Verbosely describe the action or non-action taken for every file.

‘--reference=ref_file’
   
    Change the mode of each file to be the same as that of ref_file. See File
    permissions. If ref_file is a symbolic link, do not use the mode of the
    symbolic link, but rather that of the file it refers to.

‘-R’
‘--recursive’
   
    Recursively change permissions of directories and their contents.

An exit status of zero indicates success, and a nonzero value indicates
failure.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Next: touch invocation, Previous: chgrp invocation, Up: Changing file
attributes   [Contents][Index]

