Next: Common options, Previous: Top, Up: Top   [Contents][Index]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

1 Introduction

This manual is a work in progress: many sections make no attempt to explain
basic concepts in a way suitable for novices. Thus, if you are interested,
please get involved in improving this manual. The entire GNU community will
benefit.

The GNU utilities documented here are mostly compatible with the POSIX
standard.

Please report bugs to bug-coreutils@gnu.org. Include the version number,
machine architecture, input files, and any other information needed to
reproduce the bug: your input, what you expected, what you got, and why it is
wrong.

If you have a problem with sort or date, try using the --debug option, as it
can can often help find and fix problems without having to wait for an answer
to a bug report. If the debug output does not suffice to fix the problem on
your own, please compress and attach it to the rest of your bug report.

Although diffs are welcome, please include a description of the problem as
well, since this is sometimes difficult to infer. See Bugs in Using and Porting
GNU CC.

This manual was originally derived from the Unix man pages in the
distributions, which were written by David MacKenzie and updated by Jim
Meyering. What you are reading now is the authoritative documentation for these
utilities; the man pages are no longer being maintained. The original fmt man
page was written by Ross Paterson. François Pinard did the initial conversion
to Texinfo format. Karl Berry did the indexing, some reorganization, and
editing of the results. Brian Youmans of the Free Software Foundation office
staff combined the manuals for textutils, fileutils, and sh-utils to produce
the present omnibus manual. Richard Stallman contributed his usual invaluable
insights to the overall process.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Next: Common options, Previous: Top, Up: Top   [Contents][Index]

