Next: Target directory, Previous: Disambiguating names and IDs, Up: Common
options   [Contents][Index]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

2.7 Sources of random data

The shuf, shred, and sort commands sometimes need random data to do their work.
For example, ‘sort -R’ must choose a hash function at random, and it needs
random data to make this selection.

By default these commands use an internal pseudo-random generator initialized
by a small amount of entropy, but can be directed to use an external source
with the --random-source=file option. An error is reported if file does not
contain enough bytes.

For example, the device file /dev/urandom could be used as the source of random
data. Typically, this device gathers environmental noise from device drivers
and other sources into an entropy pool, and uses the pool to generate random
bits. If the pool is short of data, the device reuses the internal pool to
produce more bits, using a cryptographically secure pseudo-random number
generator. But be aware that this device is not designed for bulk random data
generation and is relatively slow.

/dev/urandom suffices for most practical uses, but applications requiring
high-value or long-term protection of private data may require an alternate
data source like /dev/random or /dev/arandom. The set of available sources
depends on your operating system.

To reproduce the results of an earlier invocation of a command, you can save
some random data into a file and then use that file as the random source in
earlier and later invocations of the command. Rather than depending on a file,
one can generate a reproducible arbitrary amount of pseudo-random data given a
seed value, using for example:

get_seeded_random()
{
  seed="$1"
  openssl enc -aes-256-ctr -pass pass:"$seed" -nosalt \
    </dev/zero 2>/dev/null
}

shuf -i1-100 --random-source=<(get_seeded_random 42)

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Next: Target directory, Previous: Disambiguating names and IDs, Up: Common
options   [Contents][Index]

