Next: Authors of parse_datetime, Previous: Seconds since the Epoch, Up: Date
input formats   [Contents][Index]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

29.10 Specifying time zone rules

Normally, dates are interpreted using the rules of the current time zone, which
in turn are specified by the TZ environment variable, or by a system default if
TZ is not set. To specify a different set of default time zone rules that apply
just to one date, start the date with a string of the form ‘TZ="rule"’. The two
quote characters (‘"’) must be present in the date, and any quotes or
backslashes within rule must be escaped by a backslash.

For example, with the GNU date command you can answer the question “What time
is it in New York when a Paris clock shows 6:30am on October 31, 2004?” by
using a date beginning with ‘TZ="Europe/Paris"’ as shown in the following shell
transcript:

$ export TZ="America/New_York"
$ date --date='TZ="Europe/Paris" 2004-10-31 06:30'
Sun Oct 31 01:30:00 EDT 2004

In this example, the --date operand begins with its own TZ setting, so the rest
of that operand is processed according to ‘Europe/Paris’ rules, treating the
string ‘2004-10-31 06:30’ as if it were in Paris. However, since the output of
the date command is processed according to the overall time zone rules, it uses
New York time. (Paris was normally six hours ahead of New York in 2004, but
this example refers to a brief Halloween period when the gap was five hours.)

A TZ value is a rule that typically names a location in the ‘tz’ database. A
recent catalog of location names appears in the TWiki Date and Time Gateway. A
few non-GNU hosts require a colon before a location name in a TZ setting, e.g.,
‘TZ=":America/New_York"’.

The ‘tz’ database includes a wide variety of locations ranging from ‘Arctic/
Longyearbyen’ to ‘Antarctica/South_Pole’, but if you are at sea and have your
own private time zone, or if you are using a non-GNU host that does not support
the ‘tz’ database, you may need to use a POSIX rule instead. Simple POSIX rules
like ‘UTC0’ specify a time zone without daylight saving time; other rules can
specify simple daylight saving regimes. See Specifying the Time Zone with TZ in
The GNU C Library.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Next: Authors of parse_datetime, Previous: Seconds since the Epoch, Up: Date
input formats   [Contents][Index]

