Next: Time zone items, Previous: Calendar date items, Up: Date input formats  
[Contents][Index]

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

29.3 Time of day items

A time of day item in date strings specifies the time on a given day. Here are
some examples, all of which represent the same time:

20:02:00.000000
20:02
8:02pm
20:02-0500      # In EST (U.S. Eastern Standard Time).

More generally, the time of day may be given as ‘hour:minute:second’, where
hour is a number between 0 and 23, minute is a number between 0 and 59, and
second is a number between 0 and 59 possibly followed by ‘.’ or ‘,’ and a
fraction containing one or more digits. Alternatively, ‘:second’ can be
omitted, in which case it is taken to be zero. On the rare hosts that support
leap seconds, second may be 60.

If the time is followed by ‘am’ or ‘pm’ (or ‘a.m.’ or ‘p.m.’), hour is
restricted to run from 1 to 12, and ‘:minute’ may be omitted (taken to be
zero). ‘am’ indicates the first half of the day, ‘pm’ indicates the second half
of the day. In this notation, 12 is the predecessor of 1: midnight is ‘12am’
while noon is ‘12pm’. (This is the zero-oriented interpretation of ‘12am’ and
‘12pm’, as opposed to the old tradition derived from Latin which uses ‘12m’ for
noon and ‘12pm’ for midnight.)

The time may alternatively be followed by a time zone correction, expressed as
‘shhmm’, where s is ‘+’ or ‘-’, hh is a number of zone hours and mm is a number
of zone minutes. The zone minutes term, mm, may be omitted, in which case the
one- or two-digit correction is interpreted as a number of hours. You can also
separate hh from mm with a colon. When a time zone correction is given this
way, it forces interpretation of the time relative to Coordinated Universal
Time (UTC), overriding any previous specification for the time zone or the
local time zone. For example, ‘+0530’ and ‘+05:30’ both stand for the time zone
5.5 hours ahead of UTC (e.g., India). This is the best way to specify a time
zone correction by fractional parts of an hour. The maximum zone correction is
24 hours.

Either ‘am’/‘pm’ or a time zone correction may be specified, but not both.

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Next: Time zone items, Previous: Calendar date items, Up: Date input formats  
[Contents][Index]

